Okay, so now what we have is this
content.sqlite is in good shape.
So we have got it. And the beautiful thing
is you can run the rest of this process.
And then go back and Google, and go back
and scan some more stuff, it's okay.
So you don't have to wait till you're all
done, you just run this other process.
So, the thing we're
going to talk about next
is the transformation from
content.sqlite to index.sqlite.
So this is very raw,
and this is very clean.
So this is raw and large and
this is clean and small,
because we're going to read it many times.
And so we have this process called
gmodel, I just happened to call it this,
which makes the database
model go from ugly to clean.
And one of the problems we have to solve
is read this file called mapping.sqlite,
and this is where the people's
email addresses have changed.
And sometimes an organization will change
its email address for the organization.
Go from like mail.ites.umiss.edu to
mail.umiss.edu over a five-year period.
So organizations even
change their email address.
So we have got to clean this data up.
You could think of this as like
a general cleaning up of step.
Okay, so let's take a look at gmodel.py.
And we won't look at all of the cleaning.
It took me a long time to write this code.
I'd run it, I would visualize it,
I would see some anomaly and
then I would go change the mapping.
And find things and use the visualization
to help me realize that, oh
this person's showing up two times because
they have two different email addresses.
Go back, modify the mapping.sqlite and
then run this process again and
then run the visualization again.
So I'd tend to find some mistake in this,
where one university would drop to zero.
And a different university
would come up and
it turned out they were the same
university, or whatever.
And so
you tend to use your visualization and
other visualizations to help you
figure out the cleaning of the data or
this gbasic.py that I'll show you
to just dump what's going on.
Oh, wait a sec.
How come this person shows up five times?
But okay, we're going to look at this.
It is informed by a mapping file.
It reads through every record in here and
then produces a nicely data
modeled version of that same data.
So we're going to start by
looking at gmodel.py, okay?
So here we go.
It's going to read through.
Let's just skim it,
it's got some parsing in here.
We're not going to cover that too much.
Okay, so, we're going to start out.
And this is an example of something
because there's code that doesn't work on
some systems.
We're going to have this mapping file but
we're going to pull those mappings
into a dictionary from a database.
We're going to have a little thing that,
again I wrote this stuff and
I found that sometimes an email address
ends up with some extra junk on it, and
so it's not like this is magic.
This is stuff that I derive, slowly but
surely, looking at my data and mistakes.
Parsing the mail date, that's from before.
Parsing the header, that's from before,
that's going to pull out the name and
email and subject.
Okay so here we go.
So one of the things that I do here is
because I want to run this process over
and over, content.sqlite is
the result of our spidering and
index.sqlite is going to be
the result of our modeling.
So this reads from content and
writes to index.
So this is going to
connect to index.sqLite.
This text_factory str,
that has to do with Unicode.
Cursor, we're going to
wipe this out every time.
So every time we're going to run the
modeling process, because this is where
we're cleaning up our data, we're going to
just wipe out the messages, the senders,
the subjects and the replies and
these are all different tables and
you're going to see things
like integers, primary keys.
So we're going to make the Messages table,
it's going to have the IDs, some guid for
some unique text identifier.
The sent_at which is an integer, the
sender's id which is an integer primary
key, and the subject id, because
sometimes we have many subject ids.
And then the headers and
the body which are both blobs.
And then we have a Senders table.
Each sender has an id and
then the name of the sender and
that's got a unique id so we're keying.
We just threw this stuff into one table
and now we're spreading it across.
We're going to make a Subject table
which is going to have a primary key,
and the subject text, and
then the Replies so that we can keep track
of later which message is
replying to which other message.
And so the first thing we're going to
do is read this mapping.sqlite.
So let me show you what's
in the mapping.sqlite file.
This is our content so
let me close that one.
Let me close that one.
And let me open a different database,
the mapping.
So the mapping.sqlite, this
comes in a zip file.
So it's really actually a tiny database.
For all that matters we probably could
have put these things into a flat file.
But I put them in a database just so
that we can play with it.
And so I mentioned that these
are examples of people that had changed
their names over the course of this
project, which is a multi-year project.
And so I had to have their old names and
their new names, and I got these just
by running the data and
realizing that something popped up.
And so I go wait a sec, it's really the
same person, they just happened to change
their names and they were switching
jobs throughout the process, okay?
And so that was the mapping
of email addresses and
then there's a domain address.
This school and this school turned
out to be the same in our data and
I didn't want to hurt that basically.
And so
that's what's in this mapping.sqlite.
And so all I do is I say select old,
new from DNSMapping.
And then I go through all the rows and
I create a dictionary that maps
the old mail to the new mail.
It's rather complex and long but
it's really just taking the lowercase,
stripping it.
And pulling out the first column and
making that the key in my
dictionary versus the value.
That's the key value for the domain names,
and then we do this a similar thing for
the email addresses and we use this
fixsender to clean up the names of emails.
Go from old to new, and
then we just basically create another
dictionary mapping old to new.
What we don't want to be doing
is reading these two tables
every time we have to look this stuff up.
And it's not that much data so ultimately
these lines of code read that and
that's why I actually connect,
close the cursor afterwards.
Cause this is just the cursor before the
program starts to read these mappings in,
put them in memory structures
to save us some time.
Okay so now we're going to do
the main event.
So we're going to connect to the database,
content.sqlite again for
the unit code to make a factory,
get ourselves a cursor.
And then what we're going to do
is we're going to read through,
first read through all of the email
messages and get the email addresses and
then put them in a Python list.
Okay?
And I'm going to load all those up and
again I just want to make it so
this sits in memory.
Because I don't want to have
to read this over and over.
So I'm reading through the entire thing
once and cleaning up with this fixsender
which is taking the raw
email address that we got from
the API call in the beginning and making
an email address that is consistent
and canonical.
And so I append that, I make myself
a list, I print something out.
Okay, now we're going to
go through everything.
So we're selecting the headers and
the body and
the sent_at,
ordered by the sent_at from the messages.
And we have a dictionary of senders,
a dictionary of subjects,
a dictionary of guids.
And that's so that I can keep track of
the emerging primary keys of these things,
again, trying to be efficient.
So now, this is the main loop.
It is basically going to read the row,
which is headers, body, sent_at.
We're going to parse the headers
with my parsing-header function.
If there's an error in parseheader,
I get none back.
Otherwise I get a 4-tuple which is
the global unique ID, the sender,
the subject, and the sent_at.
Then I apply the sender mapping.
This is, mapping is a dictionary .get,
so is the old sender name and by
default of the old sender is not in there
and the default is also the sender's name.
That's the email address.
So this is my way of taking many email
addresses and mapping them to one.
Just how I constructed that mapping.
I'm going to add for a counter, just so
that I can every 250th record
I can print something.
And some error checking.
I'm looking to see if I
already have a primary key,
if I've already inserted
a sender in this run.
Senders is a primary key to email address,
senders more of email address, subject ID,
did I put the subject in already?
Again, I'm data modeling into
a bunch of many-to-one things.
And whether or
not I've got a guid in there or not.
And so I'm keeping track of these
because it's just not that much data.
There's only 50,000 of them.
So if these start out at empty.
If the sender starts out empty here.
So the first time I see a record and
I retrieve csev@umich.edu was what this is.
If I retrieve it, I'm
not going to get an ID.
And so I'm going to say, if it's none,
which is the default here of course,
I'm going to say insert or ignore
into Senders.
The insert or ignore
probably wouldn't matter,
but I'm always really conservative.
insert or ignore into Senders and
I stick the sender in there.
And that's going to get me the ID.
I have to commit.
So that then I can immediately do a select
to get the autogenerated ID at that point
of the sender that I just inserted.
And then I grab the row.
And then I set the sender
ID to be that row.
And then I stick it in my Senders.
So this is a mapping of email address
to primary key in my Senders table.
And some of this error checking should
never happen because it's not there.
And you'll see the same thing
happening for the subject ID.
If I don't have a primary key for the
subject, I'm going to insert and ignore,
commit it, pull that primary key back out,
and then set it in my subject ID.
So that I don't have to do this.
These things tend to grow and
I'll be getting these things out
of the dictionary in the future.
So it will insert it once and so
now I have in effect all
the primary keys and
all the foreign keys with guids and
all these things.
And so I'm going to insert or ignore
into Messages.
The guid, the sender ID, the subject ID,
sent_at, headers, and the body.
And I'll put all that stuff in.
And this is pretty straightforward,
except that I'm going to
call this thing called zlib.
And I'm going to compress, so
the data in these rows is not actually
going to be the messages themselves.
But instead I'm going to compress them.
And you'll see later when I read them,
I have to manually uncompress them.
And I'm then going to find out what
the ID, the primary key ID, and
then I'm going to make this guids array so
that that message, I get the actual, this
is the primary key for a particular guid.
GUID stands for Global Unique ID.
It's kind of a hash value of this thing.
And so that is the loop.
And when I'm all said and done,
I'm going to have a table of senders.
I'm going to have a table of subjects,
and then a table of messages, and
I close the whole thing.
So let me run that.
First remember about gmodel.py.
Is every time you start it.
it blasts the index.sqlite.
Starts over, loads all these things,
it loaded 29 email mappings,
one domain name mapping, and
all of the different senders.
Which means by this point, it read
through the content.sqlite once to make
me a mapping of all those things.
So now you see it's working its
way through every single record.
And we're going to have about
55,000 of these things.
And I'm printing out every 250th record.
So you see this every 250.
So right now we're doing a
bunch of work, and
if your hard drive is going to
start spinning for a while.
This is a very fast computer,
your computer might run this very slow.
Some people reported that this process
of reading this gigabyte of data and
doing all this model creation and
writing and stuff it takes a while.
It could take 20 minutes, it could take
30 minutes, so we'll pause here and
use the magic of video editing to get
to the point where this all finishes.